index.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
root: .
---
The material provided here seeks to take a Software Carpentry (SWC)
lesson approach to describing the process by which the standard SWC 
lesson style may be altered so as to allow for a lesson's rendered
HTML to not only be viewed using a webserver, but just also when
using basic file:/// URIs, which we term an "offline rendering".

As this lesson is unlikely to be given within an official SWC event,
it also seeks to provide a template that allows for non-SWC branding
(or perhaps SWC de-branding ?) to be applied, whilst maintaining the
look and feel that people familiar with studying content from official 
SWC lessons will have become used to, as well as making it easier for
content from within non-SWC lessons to be re-used withn official SWC
material.

> ## Prerequisites
>
> This material assumes readers will have become familiar with the
> standard SWC procedure for creating standalone lessons and/or will
> be have access to a local copy (cloned or otherwise) of SWC
> lesson-templated source material,
> and the toolchain required to render the source material with a
> `make site`
{: .prereq}

Commit message:

Adds reference to newer revision of the work

index.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
root: .
---
The material provided here seeks to take a Software Carpentry (SWC)
lesson approach to describing the process by which the standard SWC 
lesson style may be altered so as to allow for a lesson's rendered
HTML to not only be viewed using a webserver, but just also when
using basic file:/// URIs, which we term an "offline rendering".

As this lesson is unlikely to be given within an official SWC event,
it also seeks to provide a template that allows for non-SWC branding
(or perhaps SWC de-branding ?) to be applied, whilst maintaining the
look and feel that people familiar with studying content from official 
SWC lessons will have become used to, as well as making it easier for
content from within non-SWC lessons to be re-used withn official SWC
material.

Some of the issues raised in this Lesson have since been addressed
within the core lesson style, however a few remain and so a newer
revision of this work can be found at:

https://pawsey-kbuckley.github.io/offline-capable-lesson/

> ## Prerequisites
>
> This material assumes readers will have become familiar with the
> standard SWC procedure for creating standalone lessons and/or will
> be have access to a local copy (cloned or otherwise) of SWC
> lesson-templated source material,
> and the toolchain required to render the source material with a
> `make site`
{: .prereq}
